== DESCRIPTION:

http://github.com/sparkboxx/csv_importer

Ever needed to import csv files where every row needs to be converted into a model?

The CSV importer turns every row of a CSV file into an object. Each column is matched and tested against a given class.
You can provide a dictionary with translations between the CSV column names and the object properties.

== FEATURES/PROBLEMS:

* Probably no windows support right now because of different line endings.

== SYNOPSIS:

  require 'csv_importer'

  class Product < Struct.new(:title, :price, :brand, :image); end
  
  file = File.open("filename.csv", "rb")
  importer = CSVImporter::Importer.new(file, Product) # Load file and Model
  importer.objects # Import and return objects

This will look at the first line of filename.csv, and get the column names. It will then try and initialize a Product for each line using the values of the given columns.  
It does NOT save the objects yet. For use with ActiveRecord objects you can provide an argument to call save on every product when created

  products = importer.object(true)

The attributes of ActiveRecord objects are assigned using update_attributes for increased security. Beware, that if the model is not an ActiveRecord model mass assigning attributes by CSV column name might impose a security risk if you don't know the exact names of the CSV columns. 


You can also use a dictionary to "translate" between the column names in the CSV and the attribute names of your model

  class Product < Struct.new(:title, :price, :brand, :image); end
  csv_string = "title, the price, the brand \n jeans, 10, fashionable"

  dictionary = {"the brand"=>"brand", "the price"=>"price"}

  importer = CSVImporter::Importer.new(csv_string, Product, dictionary)
  products = importer.objects
  

== REQUIREMENTS:

* This gem uses the standard ruby CSV libary. Ruby 1.9 will have a new library which will probably be compatible.

== INSTALL:

  sudo gem install csv_importer

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Sparkboxx

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.